# Cognitive-Web
Semtiment Analysts | Opinion Mining | Smart Website

Introduction-Overview:
Cognitive web is an amazing website projected to start in year 2014. It is expected to gain many users since it is one of its kind. All you have to do is set up an account in the website, choose from variety of interests and you are done. Then you can browse through thousands of articles of your favourite interests(movies,sports,art,history,computer,gadgets,technology,nature,rock music’s and many more).For website/blog owners, CW is great way to find lot of information about their favourite interest. It also allows person to like, share and comment on page they are visiting. CW have so many useful features that you can’t miss. So this is just a basic introduction of CW.
CW discovers web sites based on your interests, learns what you like and brings you more. 
Using a combination of human opinions and machine learning to immediately deliver relevant content, CW presents only web sites that have been suggested by other like-minded users. Each time the Cog button is clicked, the user is presented with a high quality web site based on the collective opinions of other like-minded web surfers.
CW terms itself as a Discovery Engine. That may sound like a scientific term, but it is in fact a website for you to discover new interesting sites. There is no toolbar to download or any software to install. You just need to go to the site, sign up and click on the Cog button (or any of your favourite tags) to start discovering new sites. If you are not happy with the result, simply click on the Cog again to go to the next site.
Abstract
Whether you’re a seasoned internet veteran or a newbie learner, you know how slow it can be to search the Web. You go to Google.com, you type in keyword phrases, and then you skim through hundreds of hits, hoping for something that interests you. By the time you’re done, you’ve spent 45 minutes to find perhaps two or three useful web sites.
There is a much smarter and faster way to search the Web. By joining a special network of Web users, you can cut your searching time in half. It’s called Cognitive Web, and it’s based on people sharing their destination recommendations electronically.
CW is not a search engine driven by keywords, but rather a "browsing engine" driven by user votes. CW is based on a central database of many of users’ personal suggestions on what they consider to be quality websites. Member suggestions are categorized by topic of interest, and are updated daily to reflect a number of members' votes. The more that members like a particular website, the more highly that website is ranked. As a member of CW, you get access to thousands of hours of other people’s search experiences, and can contribute your own suggestions.
Membership is free, and the database is accessed through a website. You take 2 minutes to join the free network, and then you tell it what your personal interests are: movies, sports, art, history, computer, gadgets, technology, nature, music and many more.
Once you’re ready to try it out, click the “Cog” button, and the website will link you to the top suggested websites in your stated interests. If you like the website, you can vote it “thumbs up”, which increases it’s ranking for other users. If you don’t like it, give it “thumbs down”, and accordingly fewer people will come across it. You may also add descriptive comments for other users to see.
With time, the database will recognize your patterns of interest, and start to pair you up with other users’ websites who share your passions.
This is such an intelligent and helpful way to make the Internet a smaller and more intimate place. By calling upon other users’ experiences, it is possible to spend less time searching and more time enjoying.
CW is definitely worth a try. Cognitive Web aims to be one of the single most useful services on the Internet today. And that’s the reason why we call it Cognitive Web: a Smart Alternative to Googling!

How it works?
The key to CW is that its users can share their views on interesting Web content. Other users can then view that content, through topic-orientated browsing or purposeful searching, and reciprocate the favour by sharing their own views on interesting finds.
CW offers a personalized Web experience. At one time or another, every Internet user experiences difficulties getting the intended match from a query entered in a search engine. Narrowing search results can be a challenge, especially when you're not sure what you're looking for. Let's say you'd like to check out some cool photos taken around the world. Type "cool photos" into a regular search engine and you might get some worthwhile links mixed in with some questionable, unrelated or uninteresting content. Try the same thing with CW by selecting you interest as photos, and not only will you receive hits related to quality photography sites, the photos will crosscheck with your as well as others interests. A tool like CW helps filter Web content into a manageable, customized experience. And the more you indicate what you like, the better CW gets at offering content you'll appreciate.

TERMS:

Cog!: Look to the top of your homepage and you'll see a button that says Cog! If you click that button, you're taken to a random, totally new Web site. However, that Web site isn't as random as you might think. Being directed to this new site is the result of a combination of several inputs entered into an algorithm. Your interests and positively rated pages are factors, as well as other information like what your friends and similarly interested users have viewed and rated positively.
Users: Users are one of the most integral part of CW community. Because it is their inputs that we use and suggest Websites for other users with similar interests.
Comments: This is the traditional way of opinion mining used by CW. User is allowed to enter his/her views on the website and an algorithm is run through the comments to determine whether it is a positive reply or a negative reply. Then, accordingly the rating is saved I the database and the user’s experience is altered accordingly. However, we realize that commenting may be a tedious part on user’s side, so we came out with a new system to perform opinion mining, which is Thumbs-up and Thumbs-down.
Thumbs-up and Thumbs-down: As you are surfing or enjoying conventional Web browsing, you can use special buttons in your CW homepage to rate different Web sites you come across: either a thumbs-up (meaning you liked the site) or a thumbs-down (meaning you didn't). This rating system helps CW determine the kind of pages you'll enjoy surfing. The pages you've thumbed-up are added to the Pages Liked section of your profile.
CW combines collaborative human opinions with machine learning of personal preference to create virtual communities of like-minded web surfers. Rating websites updates a personal profile (weblog) and generates peer networks of web surfers linked by common interest.
When recommendations are done well, they lead to more engaged and satisfied users.
A recommendation engine is a mix of art and science hinged on refining small changes over time and understanding how users respond to them.
In some ways, discovery is the opposite of search. Search offers us a wide variety of results from which we need to select one manually. But often discovery is about that one right thing at the one right time.
One way to measure the success of recommendations is to ask users to rate them directly, which is the way used in CW.
Recommendation engine
CW is all about site discovery. User clicks on the “Cog!” button and the recommendation engine would return some random site based on the categories user said he/she was interested in. But then the more user uses it, better sites would be sent on his way. This is because it’s not actually random, but rather sites are served up based on a series of processes that go on within the CW Recommendation Engine.
 


As you can see in the chart above, there are two key parts to the Recommendation Engine. There are pages from the topics you marked that interest you and peer endorsed pages. Peer endorsed pages are ones from users who have similar voting habits (giving a site the thumbs up or thumbs down) as you.
When a site is first visited, it is put through both the Classification Engine and the Clustering Engine as shown above. The Classification Engine filters the page by topic and tags. While the Clustering Engine suggests the pages based on users past experience. The Clustering Engine sorts out the votes a site is getting so it can determine which sites are the quality ones that should be served. This engine is a key component which holds the system together.
This all makes for a system of “quality plus relevance”. And as with any of the recommendation engines, the more data you have, the better it’ll perform.
